README.rst, before:

grep2awk: A small zsh/zle helper
================================


While trying to find the needle in a haystack, you find yourself recklessly grepping some log files.  Suddenly, it occurs to you that there might be a pattern in the data, and ``awk`` will be the fastest way to figure out if this pattern has any relevance or not.  You want to change your ``grep`` into an ``awk`` oneliner. 

This involves some mechanical work: Arrow up to get to the command line, move to the word ``grep`` and change it, forward to the start of the regular expression and add ``'/``. Move to the end of the regular expression, and type: ``/ {}'``.  Not a big deal, but mechanical work, which does add up if you're doing this eight times a day. 

For this slight inconvenience, the tool ``grep2awk`` was written. It finds the first occurrence of the word ``grep`` in the current command line, and tries to convert the options and the regular expression into a skeleton for an ``awk``-script.  Just press a key you have chosen yourself, and you're already past the point of potential distraction which the mechanical work can entail. 

How to use:
-----------

Clone the repository someplace:

.. code:: sh

   git clone 'https://github.com/joepvd/grep2awk.git'

Then put the file ``grep2awk`` somewhere in your ``$fpath``.  Make sure the file gets ``autoload``-ed, making the script known as a line editor (``zle``) script, and assigning a key binding to it: 

.. code:: sh

   autoload -Uz grep2awk
   zle -N grep2awk
   bindkey "^X^A" grep2awk

Now, pressing ``<CTRL-X>``-``<CTRL-A>`` will bring you goodies! 


The following grep options are supported: 
-----------------------------------------

``-v``
    inverse match
``-w``
    word match
``-x``
    line match
``-l``
    list matching files
``-L``
    list not matching files
``-H``
    include filename in result
``-n``
    include line number in result
``-c``
    count occurrences per file
``-i``
    case insensitive matching
``-E``
    Extended Regular Expressions
``-F``
    Fixed string matching


Development
-----------

Patches and bug reports welcome! Main development takes place at https://github.com/joepvd/grep2awk/. 

If you ``source`` the file ``init.zsh``, the development version of ``grep2awk`` will be made available under key binding ``<CTRL-P>``. Handy for quick testing.

There is a testing library in the ``t``-directory, in which the testing framework from the `ZSH`-project has been adjusted to work with the currently installed shell.  Please run and update the tests when playing with the code. 


Bugs
----

There are some bugs. In no particular order:

The treatment of backslashes in the conversion from Fixed String to Extended Regular Expression is not working completely. 

bre2ere does not take character classes and their distinct escaping rules into account.

The testing library chokes on some bre2ere functions. That might, however, by an artifact of ``$'...'``, ``zpty`` on my environment, or the testing infrastructure.

Furthermore, the context options (``-A``, ``-B``, ``-C``) are not implemented, as well as ``-o`` (only-matching).  Also colorized matches are not supported. Whether these are considered bugs is unclear. 

How to deal with customized ``grep`` commands? Alias with options? Suffix alias with options? As a function? The (depreciated) ``GREP_OPTIONS`` environment variable? Can the proper thing to do be detected, or is a ``zstyle``-mechanism warranted? 

Please let me know whether you like it, and what could be better to support your needs!

Commit message:

Added zstyle config for awk prog and debugging

README.rst, after:

grep2awk: A small zsh/zle helper
================================


While trying to find the needle in a haystack, you find yourself recklessly grepping some log files.  Suddenly, it occurs to you that there might be a pattern in the data, and ``awk`` will be the fastest way to figure out if this pattern has any relevance or not.  You want to change your ``grep`` into an ``awk`` oneliner. 

This involves some mechanical work: Arrow up to get to the command line, move to the word ``grep`` and change it, forward to the start of the regular expression and add ``'/``. Move to the end of the regular expression, and type: ``/ {}'``.  Not a big deal, but mechanical work, which does add up if you're doing this eight times a day. 

For this slight inconvenience, the tool ``grep2awk`` was written. It finds the first occurrence of the word ``grep`` in the current command line, and tries to convert the options and the regular expression into a skeleton for an ``awk``-script.  Just press a key you have chosen yourself, and you're already past the point of potential distraction which the mechanical work can entail. 

How to use:
-----------

Clone the repository someplace:

.. code:: sh

   git clone 'https://github.com/joepvd/grep2awk.git'

Then put the file ``grep2awk`` somewhere in your ``$fpath``.  Make sure the file gets ``autoload``-ed, making the script known as a line editor (``zle``) script, and assigning a key binding to it: 

.. code:: sh

   autoload -Uz grep2awk
   zle -N grep2awk
   bindkey "^X^A" grep2awk

Now, pressing ``<CTRL-X>``-``<CTRL-A>`` will bring you goodies! 

This zle function can be configured as follows:

.. code:: sh

   zstyle ':grep2awk:' awk 'gawk --'

This sets the command that will be executed. The default is ``awk --``, and if you desire to use another awk program, you can do so.

.. code:: sh

   zstyle ':grep2awk:*:' debug /path/to/file

If ``debug`` has a value, some information is dumped in the file specified.  If it does not start with a ``/``, the working directory of the current zsh shell is used.  Currently, only the context ``bre2ere`` is supported.

.. code:: sh

   zstyle ':grep2awk:commands:' commands g gr

If you have functions, aliases, other binaries, you can list them here.  Now, the commands ``g`` and ``gr`` are recognized.

.. code:: sh

   zstyle ':grep2awk:g:options:' options Gh

Now, for the ``g`` alias, it is known that the options are set to ``-G`` and ``-h``.

If you alias ``egrep``, be sure to include ``E`` in the options list.

The following grep options are supported: 
-----------------------------------------

``-v``
    inverse match
``-w``
    word match
``-x``
    line match
``-l``
    list matching files
``-L``
    list not matching files
``-H``
    include filename in result
``-n``
    include line number in result
``-c``
    count occurrences per file
``-i``
    case insensitive matching
``-E``
    Extended Regular Expressions
``-F``
    Fixed string matching


Development
-----------

Patches and bug reports welcome! Main development takes place at https://github.com/joepvd/grep2awk/. 

If you ``source`` the file ``init.zsh``, the development version of ``grep2awk`` will be made available under key binding ``<CTRL-P>``. Handy for quick testing.

There is a testing library in the ``t``-directory, in which the testing framework from the `ZSH`-project has been adjusted to work with the currently installed shell.  Please run and update the tests when playing with the code. 


Bugs
----

How to deal with customized ``grep`` commands? Alias with options? Suffix alias with options? As a function? The (depreciated) ``GREP_OPTIONS`` environment variable? Can the proper thing to do be detected, or is a ``zstyle``-mechanism warranted? 

Please let me know whether you like it, and what could be better to support your needs!
